---
layout: post
title:  "First Blog Post"
date:   2014-08-01 
categories: posts 
permalink: /first/
---

Okay, so I'm relatively new to this blogging thing. I don't know yet what I'm going to post on this website or how often I'll do it. 

I do hope to contribute to the internet somehow, whether it's by giving tutorials on something I've recently learned how to do, expressing thoughts I have about books or links I read, and maybe even share tidbits of experiences I've learned from my own life. 

Initially, I had started with wordpress but I felt like I mind as well learn HTML and CSS and build a website. 
Even though I used Jekyll because of a recommendation from a tech savvy friend, I felt like through the process of building and designing my site, I was able to learn HTML and CSS much quicker as opposed to doing some tutorial. 
My process of thinking was more or less like this: 

Hmm, what does this do? I don't know, let me google it. Ah, so it does this. 
What about this? 

...and gradually, pieces would start to fit together. I would start reading more about certain topics that I needed to know in order to make something work in my site. It was very gratifying understanding something and then doing it hands on. 

Honestly, I would recommend, if you want to make a website, to just go to websites and use google's developer tools to inspect element and play with how an element works. You can view the position it's in and the CSS all on the same screen. 
It took me a while to get used to, but once you just play around with it for a while, everything makes since. 

In fact, I've learned enough CSS to have already been styling certain websites to fit my needs by utilizing the chrome extension "Stylish."

Using it, you can create custom CSS styles that automatically apply to the website domains it is specified for. People can contribute styles or use the styles made by users at userstyles.org

With my newly acquired CSS knowledge, I went onto facebook and just started inspecting elements that I didn't want to see on my news feed page anymore. 

At the end, I just ended up deleting everything from it except for some of elements in the blue bar at the top. Additionally, in the middle of the screen, I put words of motivation so that I would be less distracted and less inclined to use facebook. 

This greatly decreased my time on facebook, so I'm happy with the practical results my CSS knowledge--knowledge I just started acquiring this week--has allowed me to attain. 

I still have a couple of things I want to add to spruce up the site, but it's been great learning as I go. 

Hopefully, I'll keep this blog up and keep this up for as long as possible. For now, I'm happy with the fruits of my learning. More to come soon. 
